# processing_the_world_around_me

The purpose of this repo is to document the concepts and techniques I am learning and exploring while reading Daniel Shiffman's Processing books. The books I am reading are Learning Processing and The Nature of Code. I like Shiffman's temperament, and I enjoy his writing style. I've started The Nature of Code a few times, but I decided this time to backtrack and read his beginner's guide to the Processing language as well.

At first, I was hesitant to post these exercises in public. Knowing that future employeres may glance at my Github account, I worried that they would see these exercises as evidence of simple-mindedness and poorly developed skills. "Why would we hire a guy who's still learning how loops work," I could hear them saying, laughing in a conference room somewhere future.

This is because I have found that in programming circles, fundamentals seem to be viewed as something a professional should learn once and know exhaustively as well as permanently. Many developers try to appear as expert as possible, rarely discussing their weaknesses publically, even disparaging coworkers who have not yet learned something that "everyone knows" or "should have learned in his sophomore year of college."

I come from a background in the visual and aural arts, though, and I have found that to inch towards mastery, the lifelong student must return constantly to the most basic of techniques, relearning the things that he thought he had already learned. Artists practice figure drawing incessantly, and they find that they learn more each time they return. Pianists practice their scales throughout their lifetimes. A master of any art would roll her eyes at a student who said, "I've already learned the basics. I don't need to study that anymore." Masters of those disciplines know that the basics can be the hardest thing to learn, and disciplined relearning is the only way to achieve mastery.

Ultimately, I want to be a master. I want to be someone who understands his craft comprehensively. I want to be unashamed that I'm relearning simple algorithms. I want to become the type of professional who is encouraging to fledgling developers rather than discouraging or condescending. I'm putting this on Github for that reason: to remind myself that I shouldn't be ashamed of my eternal noobness and that the road to permanent, steady improvement and a humble attitude will come from perpetually embracing the things I do not know or thought I did.

So while I will take pride in finding solutions quickly, and during interviews I may claim, like Picasso:

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Je ne cherche pas, je trouve.  
  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[I do not seek, I find.]  

In this space, without shame or reservation:

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Je ne trouve pas, je cherche.


##A table of contents

* [Ant Hill](projects/AntHill/AntHill.md) - Ant-like objects hunt for food and return it to their home.
* [Boog](projects/Boog/Boog.md) - A small flying bug shoots lasers out of its eyes.
* [Bouncing Balls](projects/Motion/BouncingBalls/BouncingBalls.md) - Click-generated balls bounce to a halt.
* [Breathing](projects/Motion/Breathing/Breathing.md) - A ball gently breathes.
* [Cars](projects/Motion/Cars/Cars.md) - Colorful cars race across the screen.
* [Chasm](projects/Shapes%20and%20Colors/ChasmAtTheMouse/ChasmAtTheMouse.md) - The mouse pointer is ensconced in permanent shade.
* [Circles](projects/Shapes%20and%20Colors/RandomCircles/RandomCircles.md) - Leo Leonni-like textures pleasantly transpire.
* [Garden](projects/garden/Garden.md) - Randomly generated flowers fill a small garden.
* [Grid of Many Colors](projects/Shapes%20and%20Colors/GridOfManyColors/GridOfManyColors.md) - A technicolor dream square dance party.
* [Loop Drawings](projects/Shapes%20and%20Colors/PicturesMadeFromLoops/PicturesMadeFromLoops.md) - A series of loop-generated drawings.
* [Mouse Trails](projects/Motion/MouseTrails/MouseTrails.md) - An evaporating line trails the mouse pointer.
* [Oscillation](projects/Motion/Oscillation/Oscillation.md) - Exhuberant tetherballs swing and soar.
* [Perlin Noise](projects/Motion/PerlinToRandomComparison/PerlinToRandomComparison.md) - A comparison of two lines generated by separate algorithms.
* [Rollovers and Switches](projects/Shapes%20and%20Colors/Rollovers%20and%20Switches/Rollover.md) - An exploration of rollovers and switches.
* [Shifting Background](projects/Shapes%20and%20Colors/ShiftingBackground/ShiftingBackground.md) - A background glides from one hue to another as the mouse slides over its surface.
* [Sketchpad](projects/SimpleContinuousSketchPad/SimplecontinuousSketchPad.md) - A simple etch-a-sketch-esque drawing tool.
* [Spiral](projects/Shapes%20and%20Colors/Spiraling/Spiraling.md) - A single lonely spiral.